Based on the provided log files and plan outputs from Fast Downward (FD) runs, we can analyze the performance of the Gemma3:12B model in completing PDDL problem files with missing initial states for the delivery domain. The analysis covers five problem instances (p1 to p5).

Overall Summary
Success Rate: 2/5 (40%) – p1 and p3 were successfully solved, while p2, p4, and p5 failed.

Common Issues:

Syntax Errors: p5 had a parsing error due to a missing closing parenthesis ).

Semantic Errors: p2 and p4 resulted in unsolvable tasks due to incomplete initial states.

Successful Cases: p1 and p3 were correctly completed, leading to valid plans with costs 3 and 4, respectively.

Detailed Problem Analysis
1. p1_by_LLMs.pddl ✅ SUCCESS
Translation: Successful. The translator instantiated 3 variables, 7 facts, and 4 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 3.

Plan:
(pick-up robot1 pkg1 loca)
(move robot1 loca locb)
(drop-off robot1 pkg1 locb)

Analysis: The model provided a complete and correct initial state. The planner generated a valid plan to move the robot from loca to locb and deliver the package.

2. p2_by_LLMs.pddl ❌ FAILURE
Translation: Successful (5 variables, 13 facts, 8 operators), but the task is unsolvable.

Search: No solution found. The search expanded 2 states and hit a dead end.

Analysis: The initial state was partially complete but lacked critical predicates (e.g., the robot and package may not be at the same location initially, or a required predicate was missing). The heuristic started at 6 but failed to decrease to 0.

3. p3_by_LLMs.pddl ✅ SUCCESS
Translation: Successful. The translator instantiated 3 variables, 9 facts, and 7 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 4.

Plan:
(pick-up robota pkgx locx)
(move robota locx locy)
(move robota locy locz)
(drop-off robota pkgx locz)

Analysis: The model correctly initialized the problem with multiple locations. The plan involves two moves and a drop-off, which is valid.

4. p4_by_LLMs.pddl ❌ FAILURE
Translation: The translator output only 1 variable, 2 facts, and 0 operators. It reported: "No relaxed solution! Generating unsolvable task..."

Search: Initial state is a dead end. No solution.

Analysis: The model failed to provide any meaningful initial state. Only 2 facts were present (likely just the goal and one unrelated fact), which is insufficient.

5. p5_by_LLMs.pddl ❌ FAILURE (Syntax Error)
Error: Syntax error during parsing – Missing ')'.

Analysis: The model generated malformed PDDL with unbalanced parentheses.

Root Causes of Failure
Syntax Errors (p5): The model produced PDDL with a basic syntax error (missing parenthesis), indicating carelessness in generating well-formed PDDL.

Incomplete Initial States (p2 and p4):

For p2, the initial state was partially complete but lacked a critical predicate (e.g., (at robot ?loc) or (at package ?loc)) that prevents operator application.

For p4, the initial state was severely incomplete (only 2 facts), making the problem trivially unsolvable.

Inconsistent Performance: The model succeeded in p1 and p3 but failed in p2, p4, and p5. This inconsistency suggests that the model does not reliably understand the domain requirements.

Strengths and Weaknesses of Gemma3:12B
Strengths
Ability to Generate Valid States: In p1 and p3, the model produced initial states that were sufficient for the planner to find correct plans.

Handling Multiple Locations: In p3, the model correctly initialized a problem with three locations (locx, locy, locz), and the plan involved two moves.

Weaknesses
Syntax Errors: The model sometimes generates malformed PDDL (e.g., p5).

Incomplete Initial States: The model often omits critical predicates, leading to unsolvable tasks (p2, p4).

Inconsistency: The model works well for some problems but fails for others, indicating a lack of robustness.

Comparison with Expected Behavior
A correctly completed problem file should include:

All required objects (robots, packages, locations).

Initial predicates: (at <robot> <location>), (at <package> <location>), etc.

Enough information to allow operator instantiation.

The Gemma3:12B model met these requirements only in 2 out of 5 cases.

Recommendations for Improvement
Syntax Validation: The model should be fine-tuned to avoid basic syntax errors (e.g., balanced parentheses).

Domain-Specific Prompting: Provide the model with examples of minimal initial states for the delivery domain.

Predicate Checklist: Ensure the initial state includes:

(at <robot> <loc>)

(at <package> <loc>)

And other required predicates.

Error Feedback Loop: Use the translator’s output (e.g., "No relaxed solution") to refine the initial state.

Larger Model or Fine-Tuning: Although Gemma3:12B is larger, it still underperforms. Consider using a model specifically fine-tuned on PDDL data.

Conclusion
The Gemma3:12B model shows some capability in completing missing initial states for PDDL problems in the delivery domain, as evidenced by successful solutions for p1 and p3. However, it suffers from inconsistencies, syntax errors, and incomplete initial states, leading to a low overall success rate (40%). This suggests that while the model has potential, it requires significant improvements in reliability and domain understanding to be truly effective.

Success Rate: 2/5 (40%)
Key Issues: Syntax errors and incomplete initial states.
Recommendation: Use a model with better PDDL capabilities or incorporate domain-specific constraints and validation.

Note: The model's performance is better than smaller Gemma variants (e.g., 1B and 4B) but still not robust enough for practical use without additional checks.

s