Based on the provided log files from Fast Downward (FD) runs, we can analyze the performance of the Devstral model in completing PDDL problem files with missing initial states for the delivery domain. The analysis focuses on five different problem instances (p1 to p5), each with varying initial conditions and complexity.

1. General Observations
The domain file used is d_delivery.pddl, and the problem files (e.g., p1_by_LLMs.pddl) were generated or completed by Devstral (an LLM-based system).

The planner configuration uses astar(lmcut()) for search, which is optimal and guarantees finding a solution if one exists.

All problems (except p2) were successfully solved, indicating that Devstral generally produced valid and complete initial states for the problems.

2. Problem-by-Problem Analysis
p1_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful, with 3 variables, 7 facts, and 4 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 3.

Plan:
(pick-up robot1 pkg1 loca)
(move robot1 loca locb)
(drop-off robot1 pkg1 locb)

Analysis: The initial state provided by Devstral is sufficient for the planner to generate a straightforward plan. The heuristic value decreases monotonically (3→2→1→0), indicating a well-structured problem.

p2_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: The translator outputs a task with only 1 variable, 2 facts, and 0 operators. It notes: "No relaxed solution! Generating unsolvable task..."

Search: Initial state is a dead end. No solution found.

Analysis: Devstral failed to provide necessary initial conditions (e.g., missing critical predicates like (at robot ?loc) or (free ?gripper)). This resulted in an unsolvable task.

p3_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful, with 3 variables, 9 facts, and 7 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 4.

Plan:
(pick-up robota pkgx locx)
(move robota locx locy)
(move robota locy locz)
(drop-off robota pkgx locz)

Analysis: The initial state is complete and allows a valid plan. The problem involves more locations (locx, locy, locz), and Devstral correctly initialized all required predicates.

p4_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful, with 6 variables, 17 facts, and 14 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 6.

Plan:
(pick-up courier1 urgentpkg warehouse)
(move courier1 warehouse station)
(pick-up courier1 normalpkg station)
(move courier1 station client)
(drop-off courier1 urgentpkg client)
(drop-off courier1 normalpkg client)

Analysis: This is a more complex problem with two packages and multiple locations. Devstral successfully provided all initial states (e.g., predicates for packages, locations, and the robot), enabling a correct plan.

p5_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful, with 3 variables, 8 facts, and 5 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 4.

Plan:
(pick-up drone medicalpkg depot)
(move drone depot hospital)
(move drone hospital disasterarea)
(drop-off drone medicalpkg disasterarea)

Analysis: Devstral correctly initialized the problem involving a drone and a medical package. The plan is valid and efficient.

3. Overall Assessment of Devstral’s Performance
Strengths
Correctness: For 4 out of 5 problems (p1, p3, p4, p5), Devstral produced complete and correct initial states, allowing the planner to find valid plans.

Scalability: Devstral handled problems of varying complexity (e.g., p4 with multiple packages and locations) effectively.

Syntax Compliance: The generated PDDL files were parsed successfully by the FD translator, indicating proper syntax and structure.

Weaknesses
Failure in p2: The initial state for p2 was incomplete, leading to an unsolvable task. This suggests that Devstral may sometimes omit critical predicates (e.g., the robot’s location or the package’s initial state).

Consistency: While most problems were solved, the failure in p2 highlights occasional inconsistencies in Devstral’s understanding of the domain requirements.

4. Recommendations for Improvement
Domain-Specific Validation: Devstral should incorporate checks to ensure all necessary predicates (e.g., (at robot ?loc), (at package ?loc)) are included in the initial state.

Error Feedback: The system could benefit from feedback loops—using translator errors (like "unsolvable task") to refine the initial state.

Testing Suite: A broader set of test problems should be used to identify common failure patterns and improve robustness.

5. Conclusion
Devstral demonstrates strong capability in completing missing initial states for PDDL problems in the delivery domain, successfully handling both simple and moderately complex scenarios. However, it is not flawless, as seen in p2, where a critical omission led to failure. With further refinement and validation mechanisms, Devstral can become highly reliable for automated PDDL problem formulation.

Success Rate: 4/5 (80%)
Average Plan Cost: 4.25 (across p1, p3, p4, p5)
Key Issue: Occasional missing predicates in initial state.