Based on the provided log files from Fast Downward (FD) runs, we can analyze the performance of the Gemma3:4B model in completing PDDL problem files with missing initial states for the delivery domain. The analysis focuses on five problem instances (p1 to p5).

Overall Summary
Success Rate: 0/5 (0%) – All problems failed.

Common Issues:

Syntax Errors: 4 out of 5 problems (p1, p2, p3, p5) had a parsing error due to a missing closing parenthesis ).

Semantic Errors: The one problem that parsed correctly (p4) resulted in an unsolvable task due to an incomplete initial state.

Planner Output: For p4, the translator reported "No relaxed solution! Generating unsolvable task...", indicating that the initial state provided by the model was insufficient to achieve the goal.

Detailed Problem Analysis
1. p1_by_LLMs.pddl
Error: Syntax error during parsing – Missing ')'.

Analysis: The model generated a PDDL file with a syntax error (unclosed parentheses). This reflects a basic failure in generating well-formed PDDL syntax.

2. p2_by_LLMs.pddl
Error: Syntax error – Missing ')'.

Analysis: Same issue as p1. The model failed to produce syntactically correct PDDL.

3. p3_by_LLMs.pddl
Error: Syntax error – Missing ')'.

Analysis: Again, a syntax error due to unbalanced parentheses.

4. p4_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful (no syntax error), but the task is unsolvable.

Translator Output: Only 1 variable, 2 facts, and 0 operators. The initial state is too sparse.

Search: Initial state is a dead end. The heuristic value is infinity.

Analysis: The model failed to provide critical initial predicates (e.g., robot location, package location). The problem is trivially unsolvable.

5. p5_by_LLMs.pddl
Error: Syntax error – Missing ')'.

Analysis: Same syntax issue as p1-p3.

Root Causes of Failure
Syntax Errors (80% of cases): The model consistently generated malformed PDDL with missing closing parentheses. This indicates a lack of attention to basic PDDL syntax.

Incomplete Initial States (20% of cases): For p4, the model produced a syntactically correct but semantically meaningless initial state. It only included 2 facts (likely the goal and one unrelated fact), which is insufficient for any operator to be applicable.

Lack of Domain Understanding: The model seems unaware of the minimal requirements for a solvable delivery problem. It did not initialize:

(at <robot> <location>)

(at <package> <location>)

Or other domain-specific prerequisites.

No Operators Instantiated: In p4, the translator could not instantiate any operators because the initial state lacked the necessary preconditions.

Comparison with Expected Behavior
A correctly completed problem file should include:

All required objects (robots, packages, locations).

Initial predicates: robot location, package location, etc.

Enough information to allow operator instantiation (e.g., pick-up requires the robot and package to be at the same location).

The Gemma3:4B model failed to meet these requirements in all cases.

Recommendations for Improvement
Syntax Validation: The model should be fine-tuned or prompted to generate syntactically correct PDDL (e.g., balanced parentheses). This is a basic requirement.

Domain-Specific Templates: Provide the model with templates or examples of minimal initial states for the delivery domain.

Predicate Checklist: Ensure the initial state includes:

(at <robot> <loc>)

(at <package> <loc>)

And other required predicates.

Testing with Translator Feedback: Use the translator’s output (e.g., "No relaxed solution") as feedback to refine the initial state.

Larger Context or Fine-Tuning: Although Gemma3:4B is larger than Gemma3:1B, it still failed. Consider using a model specifically fine-tuned on PDDL data or providing more context about the domain.

Conclusion
The Gemma3:4B model performed poorly in completing missing initial states for PDDL problems in the delivery domain. It consistently generated either syntactically incorrect or semantically incomplete problem files, leading to unsolvable tasks. This suggests that the model lacks adequate understanding of PDDL syntax and domain requirements. Significant improvements are needed—possibly through better training data, templates, or a model specifically fine-tuned for PDDL—to make it viable for this task.

Success Rate: 0/5 (0%)
Key Issues: Syntax errors (missing parentheses) and incomplete initial states.
Recommendation: Use a model with better PDDL capabilities or incorporate domain-specific constraints and validation.