Based on the provided log files from Fast Downward (FD) runs, we can analyze the performance of the Gemma3:1B model (not Devstral, as per your note) in completing PDDL problem files with missing initial states for the delivery domain. The analysis focuses on five problem instances (p1 to p5), each with varying initial conditions.

Overall Summary
Success Rate: 0/5 (0%) – All problems failed.

Common Issue: All generated problem files (except p1, which had a syntax error) resulted in unsolvable tasks due to incomplete or incorrect initial states.

Planner Output: The translator consistently reported "No relaxed solution! Generating unsolvable task...", indicating that the initial state provided by the model was insufficient to achieve the goal.

Detailed Problem Analysis
1. p1_by_LLMs.pddl
Error: Syntax error during parsing – Missing ')'.

Analysis: The model generated a PDDL file with a syntax error (e.g., unclosed parentheses). This reflects a basic failure in generating well-formed PDDL syntax.

2. p2_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful, but the task is unsolvable.

Translator Output: Only 1 variable, 2 facts, and 0 operators. The initial state is too sparse.

Search: Initial state is a dead end. The heuristic value is infinity.

Analysis: The model failed to provide critical initial predicates (e.g., robot location, package location, or free gripper). The problem is trivially unsolvable.

3. p3_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful, but unsolvable.

Translator Output: Similar to p2 – only 1 variable, 2 facts, and 0 operators.

Search: Initial state is a dead end.

Analysis: The model did not initialize necessary objects or predicates. The planner cannot even instantiate any operators.

4. p4_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful, but unsolvable.

Translator Output: Again, only 1 variable, 2 facts, and 0 operators.

Search: Initial state is a dead end.

Analysis: The model failed to provide a meaningful initial state. The problem is structurally incorrect.

5. p5_by_LLMs.pddl
Translation: Successful, but unsolvable.

Translator Output: 1 variable, 2 facts, 0 operators.

Search: Initial state is a dead end.

Analysis: Same issue as others – the initial state is incomplete.

Root Causes of Failure
Syntax Errors: In p1, the model produced malformed PDDL (missing parenthesis).

Incomplete Initial States: For p2-p5, the model did not include essential predicates such as:

(at <robot> <location>)

(at <package> <location>)

(free <gripper>) (if applicable)

Other domain-specific prerequisites.

Lack of Domain Understanding: The model seems unaware of the minimal requirements for a solvable delivery problem. It generated initial states with only 2 facts (likely just the goal and one unrelated fact), which is insufficient.

No Operators Instantiated: The translator could not instantiate any operators because the initial state lacked the necessary preconditions.

Comparison with Expected Behavior
A correctly completed problem file should include:

All required objects (robots, packages, locations).

Initial predicates: robot location, package location, gripper status, etc.

Enough information to allow operator instantiation (e.g., pick-up requires the robot and package to be at the same location).

The Gemma3:1B model failed to meet these requirements in all cases.

Recommendations for Improvement
Syntax Validation: The model should be fine-tuned to generate syntactically correct PDDL (e.g., balanced parentheses).

Domain-Specific Templates: The model should be provided with templates or examples of minimal initial states for the delivery domain.

Predicate Checklist: Ensure the initial state includes:

(at <robot> <loc>)

(at <package> <loc>)

(free ...) if required.

Testing with Translator Feedback: Use the translator’s output (e.g., "No relaxed solution") as feedback to refine the initial state.

Larger Model or Fine-Tuning: Gemma3:1B may be too small for this task. Consider a larger model or fine-tuning on PDDL data.

Conclusion
The Gemma3:1B model performed poorly in completing missing initial states for PDDL problems in the delivery domain. It consistently generated either syntactically incorrect or semantically incomplete problem files, leading to unsolvable tasks. This suggests that the model lacks adequate understanding of the domain requirements and PDDL syntax. Significant improvements are needed—possibly through better training data, templates, or a larger model—to make it viable for this task.

Success Rate: 0/5 (0%)
Key Issues: Syntax errors and incomplete initial states.
Recommendation: Use a more robust model or incorporate domain-specific constraints.