Based on the provided log files and plan outputs from Fast Downward (FD) runs, we can analyze the performance of the Devstral model in completing PDDL problem files with missing initial states for the hiking domain. The analysis covers five problem instances (p1 to p5).

Overall Summary
Success Rate: 4/5 (80%) – p2, p3, p4, and p5 were successfully solved, while p1 failed due to a syntax error.

Successful Plans:

p2: Cost 2 – Hike from lodge to peak via trail

p3: Cost 2 – Hike from start to end via mid

p4: Cost 3 – Hike through multiple points (a → b → c → d)

p5: Cost 3 – Hike through named locations (base → rest-area → danger-zone → summit)

Failed Case: p1 failed due to a syntax error in the initial state.

No Semantic Errors: All parsed problems were semantically correct and solvable.

Detailed Problem Analysis
1. p1_by_LLMs.pddl ❌ FAILURE (Syntax Error)
Error: Syntax error during parsing – Invalid fact at element #5 in the init block.

Analysis: The model generated a malformed PDDL fact in the initial state. This indicates a basic syntax issue, likely due to an incorrectly formatted predicate.

2. p2_by_LLMs.pddl ✅ SUCCESS
Translation: Successful. The translator instantiated 1 variable, 3 facts, and 2 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 2.

Plan:
(walk h1 lodge trail)
(walk h1 trail peak)

Analysis: The model provided a complete and correct initial state. The planner generated a valid plan to hike from lodge to peak via trail.

3. p3_by_LLMs.pddl ✅ SUCCESS
Translation: Successful. The translator instantiated 1 variable, 3 facts, and 2 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 2.

Plan:
(walk h1 start mid)
(walk h1 mid end)

Analysis: The model correctly initialized the problem. The plan involves hiking from start to end via mid.

4. p4_by_LLMs.pddl ✅ SUCCESS
Translation: Successful. The translator instantiated 1 variable, 4 facts, and 3 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 3.

Plan:
(walk h1 a b)
(walk h1 b c)
(walk h1 c d)

Analysis: The model handled a longer path with multiple intermediate points correctly.

5. p5_by_LLMs.pddl ✅ SUCCESS
Translation: Successful. The translator instantiated 1 variable, 4 facts, and 3 operators.

Search: Solution found with cost 3.

Plan:
(walk h1 base rest-area)
(walk h1 rest-area danger-zone)
(walk h1 danger-zone summit)

Analysis: The model correctly initialized a problem with named locations, producing a valid plan.

Root Cause of Failure for p1
Syntax Error: The initial state contained an invalid fact (e.g., a predicate with wrong syntax, such as missing parentheses or incorrect arguments).

Strengths and Weaknesses of Devstral
Strengths
Semantic Correctness: For 4 out of 5 problems, the model produced initial states that were semantically correct and sufficient for the planner to find valid plans.

Handling Multiple Paths: The model successfully handled problems with varying path lengths (2 to 3 steps) and different location names.

No Dead Ends: All parsed problems (p2-p5) were solvable, and the planner found plans efficiently.

Consistency: The model performed well across different problem instances once parsing was successful.

Weaknesses
Syntax Errors: The model occasionally generated malformed PDDL (e.g., p1), indicating a lack of attention to syntactic details.

Fragility: A single syntax error can cause complete failure, highlighting the need for robust output validation.

Comparison with Expected Behavior
A correctly completed problem file for the hiking domain should include:

All required objects (hikers, locations).

Initial predicates: (at h1 ?loc) for the starting location.

Goal: (at h1 ?goal_loc).

Enough connected locations to allow the walk operator to be applied.

The Devstral model met these requirements in 4 out of 5 cases.

Recommendations for Improvement
Syntax Validation: The model should be fine-tuned to avoid basic syntax errors (e.g., balanced parentheses, correct predicate format).

Output Parsing: Add a post-processing step to validate the generated PDDL syntax before passing it to the planner.

Domain-Specific Prompting: Provide examples of correct initial state syntax for the hiking domain to reduce errors.

Error Feedback: Use the translator’s error messages (e.g., "Invalid fact") to refine the initial state.

Conclusion
The Devstral model demonstrates strong capability in completing missing initial states for PDDL problems in the hiking domain, with a success rate of 80%. It produced semantically correct initial states for problems of varying complexity, leading to valid plans. However, it occasionally generates syntax errors, which can be mitigated with better validation or fine-tuning.

Success Rate: 4/5 (80%)
Key Issue: Occasional syntax errors in initial state facts.
Recommendation: Implement syntax checks or use a post-processing step to ensure well-formed PDDL.

Note: The model's performance is highly promising for the hiking domain, and with minor improvements in syntax handling, it could achieve near-perfect reliability.

